---
layout: post
title:  "TWRP 3.5.0 Released"
date:   2020-12-31 18:24:42
categories: site update
version: 3.5.0
---

TWRP {{ page.version }} is out now for most currently supported devices.

For this release we are breaking down new support for devices based on android trees and device compatibility.
For Pie and earlier devices, they will be built out of the android-9.0 branch. For devices that
are released with Android Version 10, they will be supported under the android-10 branch.

The separation became apparent when a lot of functionality was dropped in the android-10 release last year. The
devices that are supported in Android 10 are from the tireless support of the following individuals over this period:
- CaptainThrowback
- Mauronofrio
- AndroidableDroid
- Noah Jacobson

And finally myself, bigbiff has put in a lot of work over the past year while Dees_Troy is able to get back to
helping us again with the Android-11 release. I have started a bringup for an Android-11 merge, and will be working
on the Pixel 5 bringup. I hope the progression is shorter in 2021.

You can see the device builds under their respective Jenkins view at https://jenkins.twrp.me.


What's new in {{ page.version }}:
# Android 9
- Fix building in android-5.1 trees - CaptainThrowback
- New QTI Haptics Support - AndroidableDroid
- New TSPDriver Haptics Support - LameMonster82
- Selinux restore issues - AndroidableDroid
- OEM build fixes - Fighter19
- More file extension support in Gui file selector - Mauronofrio
- FBE Fixes - CaptainThrowback
- Ozip Decryption - Mauronofrio
- Don't use persist for recovery logs - bigbiff
- Delay touch startup if necessary - bigbiff
- Spanish translation Updates - R0rt1z2
- Fix cache wiping on Slot A only devices - AndroidableDroid
- Exclude dumpsys directory from backups - DarthJabba9
- Gerrman translation Updates - 4ndyZ
- HW Rotation during runtime (does not affect touch panel) - webgeek1234
- API 24 fixes - AndroidableDroid
- vold_decrypt error on unmount - CaptainThrowback
- Multiuser - warn when users are not decrypted - noahajac
- FDE encryption fixes - CaptainThrowback
- Crypto state fixes - nebrassy
- Chinese translation Updates - Whyle
- Theme updates to match android-10 release: CaptainThrowback
- Move TWRP App install to Advanced page - Dees\_Troy
- Update Russian Translation - f2065

# Android 10
There have been so many changes to bring up Android-10. You can see the list of updates at [Github](https://github.com/TeamWin/android_bootable_recovery/commits/android-10.0)

All the above Android-9 updates are included in these supported devices.

Notable mentions:
Omni 10 minimal support: CaptainThrowback
General Bringup: Bigbiff, Mauronofrio, AndroidableDroid, CaptainThrowback, ianmacd, DarthJabba9
Encryption support: Bigbiff, Mauronofrio, CaptainThrowback
Fastbootd support: Bigbiff
Install Support: Bigbiff, CaptainThrowback
Magisk Support: Bigbiff
Backuptool Support: Chaosmaster
Apex support: Bigbiff
Dynamic Partition Support: Bigbiff


Want to get notifications when we release new versions of TWRP? [Install the TWRP app and select your device!](https://twrp.me/app)

We need your help! The bulk of TWRP work is done by a handful of people on a volunteer basis. We have pushed most of our device files to [our github](http://github.com/TeamWin/) and we have [a gerrit instance](http://gerrit.twrp.me). If you have the ability, please help us maintain our official devices and/or add your device to our official device list. Thanks in advance!

Head over to the [devices page](http://twrp.me/Devices) to find install instructions and download links.
