---
layout: post
title:  "TWRP 3.5.1 Released"
date:   2021-03-17 18:24:42
categories: site update
version: 3.5.1
---

TWRP {{ page.version }} is out now for most currently supported devices.

TeamWin has prepared a mini release before Android-11 support. The following features listed are
common to both android-9.0 android-10.0 supported devices. Many thanks to all the listed
contributors.

You can see the device builds under their respective Jenkins view at https://jenkins.twrp.me.


What's new in {{ page.version }}:
# Android 9 Branch:
- Fixes
  - Build compilation in 7.1 tree - CaptainThrowback
  - SAR: Don't follow symbolic links for block devices - bigbiff
  - SAR Update script name for clarity - CaptainThrowback

# Android 9 and Android 10 Branches:
- Wrappedkey support running only on FBE devices - CaptainThrowback
- TWRP App log information reduced - epicX67
- Refresh details after system wipe and adb sideload - AdrianDC
- Chinese translation updates - betaxb
- Support keymaster 2 - PeterCxy
- add tzdata to TWRP for timezones - CaptainThrowback
- ParitionManager: support delayed adopted storage mount - PeterCxy
- Support to start terminal from file manager directory - AndroiableDroid
- Nano support - nebrassy
- Add nano support to open files from file manager - CaptainThrowback
- Include new magisk apk support to be installed by TWRP - ianmacd
- Add support to change directory name where TWRP stores backups - epicX67
- Add bash support - not the default shell - DarthJabba9
- ORS support to format data - AdrianDC
- Add support to flash both slots when flashing an image - epicX67
- NL translation updates - ianmacd
- Cleanup
  - Installation cleanup - remove dupe PackageExtractFn - klabit87
  - Remove logd-reinit service - CaptainThrowback
- Fixes
  - Restore system root context - bigbiff
  - Only include keymaster 2 if tree supports it - CaptainThrowback
  - Strip lines containing '--' in language_helper.py - ianmacd
  - Unlocalized string fix - ianmacd

Want to get notifications when we release new versions of TWRP? [Install the TWRP app and select your device!](https://twrp.me/app)

We need your help! The bulk of TWRP work is done by a handful of people on a volunteer basis. We have pushed most of our device files to [our github](http://github.com/TeamWin/) and we have [a gerrit instance](http://gerrit.twrp.me). If you have the ability, please help us maintain our official devices and/or add your device to our official device list. Thanks in advance!

Head over to the [devices page](http://twrp.me/Devices) to find install instructions and download links.
